[DOCS-4345] API Catalog (#15909)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/api_catalog/_index.md

---
title: Datadog API Catalog
kind: documentation
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/service_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog Service Catalog"
---

> {{< beta-callout url="https://datadoghq.com" d-toggle="modal" d_target="#signupModal" custom_class="sign-up-trigger">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< beta-callout url="https://forms.gle/TgezmEhUPXzebvv27" d-toggle="modal" d_target="#signupModal" custom_class="sign-up-trigger">}}
```

---
title: Datadog API Catalog
kind: documentation
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/service_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog Service Catalog"
---

{{< beta-callout url="https://datadoghq.com" d-toggle="modal" d_target="#signupModal" custom_class="sign-up-trigger">}}
  Datadog API Catalog is in beta! Use this form request access. 
{{< /beta-callout >}} 

> {{< img src="tracing/api_catalog/api-catalog-overview.png" alt="API Catalog showing a list of API endpoints along with their Error Rate, P99 Latency, Requests Count, and Owning Team, with searching, filtering, and scoping features." style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: see a new better  image here - https://a.cl.ly/12uRq4jL

(we have the sorting working so it is easier to get a better view of the Catalog

## Overview

The API Catalog provides a single view and entry point into exploring the performance, reliability, and ownership of all your API Endpoints in one place. It's a central place where your whole company can find constantly up-to-date information about the characteristics of the APIs used by internal services (private APIs) and external users (publicly exposed APIs). 

> Monitor your mission-critical API-driven business features by continuously discovering and tracking the performance of the APIs that you expose to your customers, and the ones your services rely on to function. Standardize performance expectations for APIs and constantly validate these expectations, alerting when performance deviates from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitor your mission-critical API-driven business features by, standardize APIs performance expectations and constantly validate these expectations, alerting when performance deviates from them.
```

This enables your efforts to:

> - Provide high availability and uptime of critical business features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide high availability and uptime of critical APIs and business features that relies on them to function.
```

> - Have fewer regressions and instability issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have fewer API regressions and instability issues.
```

- Triage incidents quicker.

> - Optimize resources allocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> API Catalog brings together data from across Datadog provide opinionated workflows so you can explore and monitor your APIs from different sources in one unified view. API Catalog provides:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API Catalog brings together data from across Datadog to provide opinionated workflows so you can explore and monitor your APIs from different sources in one unified view. API Catalog provides:
```

- **Automated discoverability** - One inventory for all public, private, and partner APIs, where _endpoints_ are the organizing principle.
- **Correlation of all API metadata** from different Datadog sources.
- **API endpoint metrics** such as Last Seen, Requests, Latency, and Errors, to identify performance issues and track API health.

> - **Monitoring and governance workflows** such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   - Alerting on Endpoints that deviate from defined performance expectations and thresholds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Alerting** on Endpoints that deviate from defined performance expectations and thresholds.
```

>   - Resolving incidents faster with API ownership information directly associated with each endpoint, to know who to reach when something goes wrong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resolving incidents faster with API ownership information (team, on-call, communication channels, code repo) directly associated with each endpoint, to know who to reach when something goes wrong
```

> ### Some background terminology

Reviewer: can we move the background terminology section to the end and just have a sentence in the overview that says something like "learn more / APIs terminology" and links to that section in the end?

it is way to heavy to put in the beginning of the docs

API
: A set of protocol and tools that allow two applications to communicate.

API endpoint

> : The URL for a server or a service, often through an HTTP, RESTful API interface, that implements the set of rules defined in the API. APIs operate through responses and requests -- a client makes a request and the API endpoint makes a response.<br /><br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The address of a resource (URL) of a server or a service, that implements the set of rules defined in the API, often through an HTTP, RESTful API interface. The API endpoint responsible for making the API call response.<br /><br/>
```

API endpoints in the API Catalog are comprised by the HTTP Method (for example, `GET`), the URL's Path (the structure of the location of the resource, such as `/payment/{shop_id}/purchase`) and the Service this resource serves (for example, `Payments`)<br /><br/>

> The API Catalog in beta supports only HTTP RESTful endpoints. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API Catalog in **beta** supports only **HTTP** endpoints. 
```

Public APIs

> : Publicly exposed API through the internet. An organization's way to expose services and apps to customers. In most cases, public APIs are used by web and mobile apps, but it's becoming more common to have public APIs that expose new revenue streams alongside web app. Customers expect APIs to be a central part of your product offering, and they set up workflows and automation that leverage those APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Customer facing API endpoints that are accessible from the internet.
```

Private APIs

> : Also called internal APIs. Intended solely for internal use within a company or organization. They’re the most common type of API as they’re quick to develop and don’t need to be as robust as products intended for public consumption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Also called internal APIs. Intended solely for internal use within a company or organization, used mainly for backend services communication . The most common type of APIs.
```

Partner APIs

> : Also called third party APIs. APIs that your app consumes that belong to a different organization (the third party). You leverage those APIs to provide your own service, and you are dependent on them for some features to work. For example, Paypal, Stripe, or other payment APIs, authentication providers including federated ones like Google or Facebook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Also called third party APIs. Endpoints that the organization uses to provide its own services, basically these are another organization’s public endpoints (e.g. Stripe, Google, Facebook).
```

## Exploring your endpoints

The [API Catalog][1] view shows all endpoints in all environments in your Datadog organization. The performance data shown for each endpoint is scoped to the environments and time frame you select. You can browse and ask valuable questions by querying on different properties and metrics to get more precise results, using facets and tags for quick filtering.

In the list table, **sort** by any of the columns by clicking a header. For example, click **P99** to see endpoints with the highest 99th percentile for latency.

The table also shows **team ownership** for the API. This information is inherited from the associated service's definition in the [Service Catalog][2]. A service owner owns all of the endpoints that are connected to the service.

> To **filter the list** of endpoints or to search for a particular endpoint of interest, enter a query in the **Search** field. Search by service, path, or any other primary tag you wish. Or select a combination of facets on the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To **filter the list** of endpoints or to search for a particular endpoint of interest, enter a query in the **Search** field. Search by service, path, or any other primary tag you wish. 
Or select a combination of facets on the left. Facet by the owning **service** or the **team** they belong to.

```

To **scope the data** shown in the table, specify an environment, another primary tag (such as datacenter), and a time frame.

> {{< img src="tracing/api_catalog/api-catalog-scope.mp4" alt="Showing how changing scope settings changes the metrics shown in the API Catalog" video="true" >}}

Reviewer: waiting for some clean up and adding the Sorting for latency and errors feature and then I will produce a better image here.
just before we release =)

You can [define tags](#group-apis-to-express-a-feature-or-business-logic) to use as facets so you can easily find groups of endpoints you're most interested in.

> **Note**: The `API Type` facet is based on auto-generated tags and has values of `public` and `unknown` (which usually indicates a private endpoint).

Reviewer: we don't have this yet. removing.
```suggestion
```

## Investigating endpoint details

When you're exploring an endpoint, getting a higher resolution view of the API endpoints details is helpful.

> Click an endpoint in the list to open a details page that shows performance, governance, and metadata information for the endpoint, collected from various areas of Datadog into one place. Here you can edit the short name and description, and add custom tags. You can also launch deeper investigations of the various types of telemetry using links into other areas of Datadog. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click an endpoint in the list to open a details page that shows performance, ownership, and metadata information for the endpoint, collected from various areas of Datadog into one place. Here you can edit the short name and description, and add custom tags. You can also launch deeper investigations of the various types of telemetry using links into other areas of Datadog. 
```

For example, you can:

> - Add facets to endpoints by the owning service or the team they belong to. For example, you could add a `web-store` service facet.

Reviewer: this is not something you can do in the details page. removing
```suggestion
```

- Look up a specific endpoint by path (for example, `/checkout`) when it shows high error rate and high request count.

> - Navigate to related telemetry like traces and logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- View the Error/Hits graph and correlated Response Code graph to identify issues.
```

> - View the Error/Hits graph and correlated Response Code graph to identify issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Navigate to related telemetry like traces and logs.
```

The performance graphs on the page are initially scoped to the same settings as on the API Catalog page, and you can change those settings in the details page to suit your investigation by using the time frame selector and other scope drop-downs. 

> 

Reviewer: add a mp4 showing this, the navigation to traces from Endpoint 500 errors is pretty strong to show

The ownership information -- team, on call information, communication details -- is derived from the underlying Service definition supplied to the Service Catalog.

{{< img src="tracing/api_catalog/api-catalog-team-details.png" alt="The team details panel in the endpoint details page, showing the name and communication information for the team that owns the endpoint, as defined in Service Catalog" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Group APIs to express a feature or business logic

In addition to tagging an endpoint in its details page, you can **group endpoints by adding tags to multiple endpoints at once**. Select multiple endpoint check boxes, and click **Edit tags** to provide labels that describe business logic, importance, or other useful grouping information. Applying these labels can help you quickly view and access groups of endpoints defined by your own criteria, and create assets such as monitors and dashboards for endpoint groups with common ground and expectations.

For example, if you want to create latency alerts for endpoints that are particularly sensitive to performance problems, tag those endpoints with a tag like `Latency sensitive`. 

> <!-- screen cap of making the "Latency sensitive" group tktk  -->

Reviewer: working on it, should be in the Demo org today/tomorrow

---
title: Datadog API Catalog
kind: documentation
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/service_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog Service Catalog"
---

{{< beta-callout url="https://forms.gle/TgezmEhUPXzebvv27" d-toggle="modal" d_target="#signupModal" custom_class="sign-up-trigger">}}
  Datadog API Catalog is in beta! Use this form request access. 
{{< /beta-callout >}} 

{{< img src="tracing/api_catalog/api-catalog-overview.png" alt="API Catalog showing a list of API endpoints along with their Error Rate, P99 Latency, Requests Count, and Owning Team, with searching, filtering, and scoping features." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Overview

> The API Catalog provides a single view and entry point into exploring the performance, reliability, and ownership of all your API Endpoints in one place. It's a central place where your whole company can find constantly up-to-date information about the characteristics of the APIs used by internal services (private APIs) and external users (publicly exposed APIs). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The API Catalog provides a single view and entry point for exploring the performance, reliability, and ownership of all your API endpoints in one place. It's a central place where your whole company can constantly find up-to-date information about the characteristics of the APIs used by internal services (private APIs) and external users (publicly exposed APIs). 
```

> Monitor your mission-critical API-driven business features by, standardize APIs performance expectations and constantly validate these expectations, alerting when performance deviates from them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Monitor your mission-critical API-driven business features by standardizing API performance KPIs, monitoring these KPIs, and alerting when performance deviates from them.
```

> This enables your efforts to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The API Catalog enables your development teams to:
```

> - Provide high availability and uptime of critical APIs and business features that relies on them to function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Provide high availability and uptime of critical APIs and the business features that rely on them to function.
```

> - Have fewer API regressions and instability issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Prevent API regressions and instability issues.
```

> - Triage incidents quicker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Quickly identify and triage incidents.
```

> API Catalog brings together data from across Datadog to provide opinionated workflows so you can explore and monitor your APIs from different sources in one unified view. API Catalog provides:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
API Catalog combines data from across Datadog to provide opinionated workflows so you can explore and monitor your APIs from different sources in one unified view. API Catalog provides:
```

- **Automated discoverability** - One inventory for all public, private, and partner APIs, where _endpoints_ are the organizing principle.
- **Correlation of all API metadata** from different Datadog sources.

> - **API endpoint metrics** such as Last Seen, Requests, Latency, and Errors, to identify performance issues and track API health.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **API endpoint metrics**, such as **Last Seen**, **Requests**, **Latency**, and **Errors**, to identify performance issues and track API health.
```

> - **Alerting** on Endpoints that deviate from defined performance expectations and thresholds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Alerting** on endpoints that deviate from defined performance expectations and thresholds.
```

- Resolving incidents faster with API **ownership information** (team, on-call, communication channels) directly associated with each endpoint, to know who to reach when something goes wrong

> <div class="alert alert-info">Not sure what an API or an endpoint is? See <a href="#key-terminology">Key terminology</a> for some background on concepts that are important to understanding what API Catalog does.</div>

Reviewer 3: I think someone wouldn't be here if they didn't know what an API or endpoint is. Maybe we can rephrase this to be a pointer to the glossary and not so basic.

> <div class="alert alert-info">Not sure what an API or an endpoint is? See <a href="#key-terminology">Key terminology</a> for some background on concepts that are important to understanding what API Catalog does.</div>

Author: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">See <a href="#key-terminology">Key terminology</a> for some background on concepts that are important to understanding what API Catalog does.</div>
```

## Exploring your endpoints

> The [API Catalog][1] view shows all endpoints in all environments in your Datadog organization. The performance data shown for each endpoint is scoped to the environments and time frame you select. You can browse and ask valuable questions by querying on different properties and metrics to get more precise results, using facets and tags for quick filtering.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [API Catalog][1] view shows all endpoints in all environments in your Datadog organization. The performance data shown for each endpoint is scoped to the environment and time frame you select. You can browse and ask questions by querying different properties and metrics to get more precise results, using facets and tags for quick filtering.
```

In the list table, **sort** by any of the columns by clicking a header. For example, click **P99** to see endpoints with the highest 99th percentile for latency.

> The table also shows **team ownership** for the API. This information is inherited from the associated service's definition in the [Service Catalog][2]. A service owner owns all of the endpoints that are connected to the service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The table also shows **team ownership** for the API. This information is inherited from the associated service definition in the [Service Catalog][2]. The service owner owns all of the endpoints connected to the service.
```

> To **filter the list** of endpoints or to search for a particular endpoint of interest, enter a query in the **Search** field. Search by service, path, or any other primary tag you wish. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To **filter the list** of endpoints or to search for a particular endpoint of interest, enter a query in the **Search** field. Search by service, path, or any other primary tag. 
```

Or select a combination of facets on the left, filtering by the owning **service** or the **team** they belong to.

To **scope the data** shown in the table, specify an environment, another primary tag (such as datacenter), and a time frame.

{{< img src="tracing/api_catalog/api-catalog-scope.mp4" alt="Showing how changing scope settings changes the metrics shown in the API Catalog" video="true" >}}

You can [define tags](#group-apis-to-express-a-feature-or-business-logic) to use as facets so you can easily find groups of endpoints you're most interested in.

## Investigating endpoint details

> When you're exploring an endpoint, getting a higher resolution view of the API endpoints details is helpful.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When exploring an endpoint, getting a higher resolution view of the API endpoint details is helpful.
```

> Click an endpoint in the list to open a details page that shows performance, ownership, and metadata information for the endpoint, collected from various areas of Datadog into one place. Here you can edit the short name and description, and add custom tags. You can also launch deeper investigations of the various types of telemetry using links into other areas of Datadog. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click an endpoint in the list to open a details page that shows performance, ownership, and metadata information for the endpoint, collected from various areas of Datadog, into one place. Here you can edit the short name and description and add custom tags. You can also launch deeper investigations of the various types of telemetry using links into other areas of Datadog. 
```

For example, you can:

> - Look up a specific endpoint by path (for example, `/checkout`) when it shows high error rate and high request count.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Look up a specific endpoint by path (for example, `/checkout`) when it shows a high error rate and a high request count.
```

- View the Error/Hits graph and correlated Response Code graph to identify issues.
- Navigate to related telemetry like traces and logs.

{{< img src="tracing/api_catalog/endpoint-details-pivot-to-traces.mp4" alt="Click into an endpoint to see Errors graph, and click through to related traces to investigate." video="true" >}}

> The performance graphs on the page are initially scoped to the same settings as on the API Catalog page, and you can change those settings in the details page to suit your investigation by using the time frame selector and other scope drop-downs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The performance graphs on the page are initially scoped to the same settings as on the API Catalog page, and you can change those settings on the details page to suit your investigation by using the time frame selector and other scope drop-downs. 
```

## Exploring endpoints during incidents

> When investigating an incident, getting a detailed resolution view of the API endpoint can lead to faster understanding of the root cause.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When investigating an incident, getting a detailed resolution view of the API endpoint can lead to a faster understanding of the root cause.
```

> In addition, you can quickly identify who is the owning team of each endpoint, who is the on-call engineer, and how to reach them (email, Slack, PagerDuty) to help resolve incidents involving a specific API endpoint faster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition, you can quickly identify the owning team of each endpoint, the on-call engineer, and how to reach them (email, Slack, PagerDuty) to help resolve incidents involving a specific API endpoint.
```

> The ownership information -- team, on call information, communication details -- is derived from the underlying Service definition supplied to the Service Catalog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ownership information -- team, on-call information, communication details -- is derived from the service definition supplied from the Service Catalog.
```

For example, if you want to create latency alerts for endpoints that are particularly sensitive to performance problems, tag those endpoints with a tag like `Latency sensitive`. 

<!-- screen cap of making the "Latency sensitive" group tktk  -->

Or tag endpoints that handle sensitive data with a tag like `PII` and alert when endpoints with that tag have a `401 Unauthorized` response. Other examples of useful tags:

- `critical to feature X`
- `newly added - V2`
- `contains password`
- `contains PII`
- Business logic (for example, `payments` )
- Specific customer group (`subscribers`)

When you add a tag, it appears in the list of facets on the left of the catalog. Click a facet to filter the list and add the tag to the Search query field.

## Setting up

> Automatically built on top of APM data, API Catalog can be turned on with no additional setup required. Only APM instrumented services and supported libraries are discoverable. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Automatically built on APM data, API Catalog can be turned on in an existing APM instance with no other setup required. Only APM instrumented services and supported libraries are discoverable. 
```

To set up your API Catalog list:
- [Instrument the services][3] with APM. 
- [Define service ownership information][2] using Service Catalog.

### Key terminology

API

> : A set of protocol and tools that allow two applications to communicate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: A set of protocols and tools that allow two applications to communicate.
```

API endpoint

> : The address of a resource (URL) of a server or a service, that implements the set of rules defined in the API, often through an HTTP, RESTful API interface. The API endpoint responsible for making the API call response.<br /><br/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: The address of a resource (URL) of a server or a service that implements the set of rules defined in the API, often through an HTTP, RESTful API interface. The API endpoint responsible for making the API call response.<br /><br/>
```

> API endpoints in the API Catalog are comprised by the HTTP Method (for example, `GET`), the URL's Path (the structure of the location of the resource, such as `/payment/{shop_id}/purchase`) and the Service this resource serves (for example, `Payments`)<br /><br/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
API endpoints in the API Catalog are comprised by the HTTP Method (for example, `GET`), the URL's Path (the structure of the location of the resource, such as `/payment/{shop_id}/purchase`) and the Service this resource serves (for example, `Payments`)<br /><br/>
```
Is this saying that API Catalog only supports HTTP API monitoring or is this more of a meta disection of how we built the API Catalog using HTTP endpoints, and this is what you would see if you are looking at it? Either way needs to be slightly rephrased to clarify.

Reviewer 3: Oooh, looking at the next line, it looks like this should all be combined and be something like 

```The API Catalog supports HTTP endpoints (for example, `GET`). When monitoring these endpoints, you'll seethe endpoint, the URL's Path (the structure of the location of the resource, such as `/payment/{shop_id}/purchase`) and the service this resource serves (for example, `Payments`)<br /><br/>```

Author: Sort of? I agree this could be written better, so I'll take another crack at it.

> The API Catalog in **beta** supports only **HTTP** endpoints. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Public APIs

> : Customer facing API endpoints that are accessible from the internet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: Customer-facing API endpoints that are accessible from the internet.
```

Private APIs

> : Also called internal APIs. Intended solely for internal use within a company or organization, used mainly for backend services communication. The most common type of APIs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: Also called internal APIs. Intended solely for internal use within a company or organization, used mainly for backend service communication. The most common type of APIs.
```

Partner APIs

> : Also called third party APIs. Another organization's public endpoints that your organization uses to provide your services (for example, Stripe, Google, Facebook).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: Also called third-party APIs. Another organization's public endpoints that your organization uses to provide your services (for example, Stripe, Google, and Facebook).
```

kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/service_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog Service Catalog"

---

## Overview

The API Catalog provides a single view and entry point into exploring the performance, reliability, and ownership of all your API Endpoints in one place. Sort the list of endpoints by error rate, latence, or any other grouping that is meaningful to you, to gain insights into which endpoints most need your attention.

Protect your mission-critical API-driven business features from failing by continuously discovering and monitoring the APIs that you expose to your customers, and the ones your services rely on to function.

API Catalog brings together data from across Datadog to surface API-related metadata and to provide opinionated workflows so you can discover, monitor, and govern your APIs from different sources in one unified view. API Catalog provides:

- **Automated discoverability** - One inventory for all public, private, and partner APIs, where _endpoints_ are the organizing principle.
- **Correlation of all API metadata** from different Datadog sources.
- **Monitoring and governance workflows** for SREs, Ops, and security.

> 

Author: Added this as a terminology list.

## Adding bulk tags

In addition to tagging an endpoint in its details page, you can **add tags to multiple endpoints** at once in the API Catalog. Select multiple endpoint check boxes, and click **Edit tags** to provide ownership, importance, or other useful grouping information labels to the selected endpoints. This can help you quickly access groups of endpoints defined by your own criteria, and create assets such as monitors and dashboards from endpoints with specific tags.

For example, if you want to create latency alerts for endpoints that are particularly sensitive to performance problems, tag those endpoints with a tag like `Latency sensitive`. Or tag endpoints that handle sensitive data with a tag like `PII` and alert when endpoints with that tag have a `401 Unauthorized` response. Other examples of useful tags:

- Criticality level
- `experimental`
- `contains password`
- `contains PII`
- Business logic (for example: `payments` )
- Specific customer group (`subscribers`)

When you add a tag, it appears in the list of facets on the left of the catalog. Click a facet to filter the list and add the tag to the Search query field.

## Exploring endpoints during incidents

> When investigating an incident, getting a higher resolution view through the API endpoints can lead to faster understanding of the root cause. Resolve incidents faster with **API ownership information** -- team, code repository, on-call details -- directly associated with each endpoint, to know who to reach when something goes wrong. 

Reviewer: let's replace this paragraph with:

When investigating an incident, getting a detailed resolution view of the API endpoint can lead to faster understanding of the root cause.

In addition, you can quickly identify who is the owning *Team* of each endpoint, who is the *on-call engineer* and *how to reach them* (Email, Slack, Pager Duty) to help resolve incidents involving a specific API Endpoint faster.

*we don't have the navigation to code yet in this version

> The ownership information displayed on API Catalog pages is derived from the underlying Service definition supplied to the Service Catalog.

Reviewer: the Ownership information (-- team, , on-call details, Communication details, [coming soon] code repository -- is displayed .... 

let's add a screenshot highlighting the section in the side panel

> ## Creating monitors

Reviewer: let's have this section in draft since we won't have Monitors in the first release

Author: removed it for now, can always get it back

I want to get alerted each time an endpoint (or a group of endpoints) with high throughput gets a high error rate, so that I will not get false positive alerts on high error rate with low throughput.
As a team leader, I want to monitor all the endpoints my team owns in a specific way that fits my team.
As an SRE, I would like to list the defined Monitors of endpoints I care about, to make sure they are less of a risk in case of an incident.
As an SRE, I would like to view all endpoints with defined Monitors (alerted), so I can address their endpoint owner so they can fix the alert.

choose the type of metric in advance from the catalog (since there would be a lot of not-API-related queries inside the monitors page) and it would be exported together with the defined queries

## Setting up

> 

Reviewer: Automatically built on top of APM data , API Catalog can be turned on with no additional setup required.

Only APM instrumented services and supported APM integrations are discoverable (link to FAQs or have a section about the supported integrations)

FAQs in Conf - https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/APIM/pages/2721185795/FAQ
